# Introduction to Docker II


## Multi Stage Docker
we might not be using this. meant for compile time languages
- compile time they need alot of binaries  
- running it need single binary

building in one machine, port needed fs and work on different machine


# Dev Containers

- STEP: 1
    - While Running peek inside container and checking fs
    - right-click open in VSCode

-  STEP: 2

    Extension: `ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers`
    - Add Dev containers configuration files => Add configuration user data folder => From Dockerfile => no checkbox => no checkbox => OKAY
    - creates `devcontainer.json` under `devcontainer`
    ```json
    {
        "name": "CatGif Docker",
        "build": {
            // Sets the run context to one level up instead of the .devcontainer folder.
            "context": "..",
            // Update the 'dockerFile' property if you aren't using the standard 'Dockerfile' filename.
            "dockerfile": "../Dockerfile"
        }
    }
    ```
    `cmd+shift+p` => rebuild => opens fs


# Docker-compose

Docker Compose is a tool that allows you to define and manage *multi-container Docker *applications. It uses YAML files to configure the application's services and with a single command, you can create and start all the services specified in your configuration.

benefit
- scaling each service independently

what if fastapi-1 expose:8000 fastapi-2 expose:8000??
- we need to take care of those things.
- handles by `docker-swamp`


- docker compose build
- docker compose up -d  (-d:: --daemon)
- docker compose down <removed>
run only one service: docker compose run web


- master and slave architecture
cons:
- if master goes down, then whole thing goes down. (kubernets)


## volume
- mount & data persists

## Train, Eval & inference  
- docker-compose.yml contains calling different dockerfile 

```sh
docker compose build
docker compose train
docker compose evaluate
docker compose run --service-ports server
docker compose infer
docker compose ps # should be inside respective folder
```
Terminology::
- thread 

    - Its shares the same memory space as other threads with the same process. 
    - Quick context switching

- process
    - runs like separate entity has it's own memory space and resources

- shared memory
    - synchronization: threads must synchronize acccess to shared resources to avoid data corruption
    - deadlocks: threads can deadlock if they are waiting for each other to related resources

- concurrency
    the ability of a system to handle multiple tasks at once, which may or may not be executing simultaneously      

- parallelism
    This involves performing multiple tasks at the same time



<!-- usually production-grade people won't use docker swarm-->
## Multiple compose Files
- https://docs.docker.com/compose/extends/

## Load Balancing and Scaling with Docker compose
- https://medium.com/@vinodkrane/microservices-scaling-and-load-balancing-using-docker-compose-78bf8dc04da9



summary::
- Dockerfile: This is a text file that contains all commands needed to build a Docker image.
- Docker Images: These are read-only templates used to create containers. Images are created from Dockerfiles and are stored in Docker registries.
- Docker Containers: These are runnable instances of Docker images.
- Docker Compose File (docker-compose.yml): This YAML file describes your app’s services and defines which software, services, and tools are needed to run them.
 

Volumes:
- bind volumes: local(suffer fs) to container
- named volumes: persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers

docker run (-v) --volume   *if not exists it'll create*
- docker volume create
- docker volume ls
- docker volume rm :volume name:
- docker volume inspect :volume name:
- docker volume prune
- docker run --mount source=:volname: target="/path"